<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XXXIII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-33" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2>CHAPTER XXXIII</h2>
			<p class="pindent">I dropped off the train in Milan as it slowed to come into the station early in the morning before it was light. I crossed the track and came out between some buildings and down onto the street. A wine shop was open and I went in for some coffee. It smelled of early morning, of swept dust, spoons in coffee-glasses and the wet circles left by wine-glasses. The proprietor was behind the bar. Two soldiers sat at a table. I stood at the bar and drank a glass of coffee and ate a piece of bread. The coffee was gray with milk, and I skimmed the milk scum off the top with a piece of bread. The proprietor looked at me.</p>
			<p class="pindent">“You want a glass of grappa?”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“No thanks.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“On me,” he said and poured a small glass and pushed it toward me. “What’s happening at the front?”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“I would not know.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“They are drunk,” he said, moving his hand toward the two soldiers. I could believe him. They looked drunk.</p>
			<p class="pindent">“Tell me,” he said, “what is happening at the front?”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“I would not know about the front.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“I saw you come down the wall. You came off the train.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“There is a big retreat.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“I read the papers. What happens? Is it over?”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“I don’t think so.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">He filled the glass with grappa from a short bottle. “If you are in trouble,” he said, “I can keep you.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“I am not in trouble.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“If you are in trouble stay here with me.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“Where does one stay?”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“In the building. Many stay here. Any who are in trouble stay here.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“Are many in trouble?”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“It depends on the trouble. You are a South American?”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“No.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“Speak Spanish?”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“A little.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">He wiped off the bar.</p>
			<p class="pindent">“It is hard now to leave the country but in no way impossible.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“I have no wish to leave.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“You can stay here as long as you want. You will see what sort of man I am.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“I have to go this morning but I will remember the address to return.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">He shook his head. “You won’t come back if you talk like that. I thought you were in real trouble.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“I am in no trouble. But I value the address of a friend.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">I put a ten-lira note on the bar to pay for the coffee.</p>
			<p class="pindent">“Have a grappa with me,” I said.</p>
			<p class="pindent">“It is not necessary.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“Have one.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">He poured the two glasses.</p>
			<p class="pindent">“Remember,” he said. “Come here. Do not let other people take you in. Here you are all right.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“I am sure.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“You are sure?”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“Yes.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">He was serious. “Then let me tell you one thing. Do not go about with that coat.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“Why?”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“On the sleeves it shows very plainly where the stars have been cut away. The cloth is a different color.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">I did not say anything.</p>
			<p class="pindent">“If you have no papers I can give you papers.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“What papers?”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“Leave-papers.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“I have no need for papers. I have papers.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“All right,” he said. “But if you need papers I can get what you wish.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“How much are such papers?”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“It depends on what they are. The price is reasonable.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“I don’t need any now.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">He shrugged his shoulders.</p>
			<p class="pindent">“I’m all right,” I said.</p>
			<p class="pindent">When I went out he said, “Don’t forget that I am your friend.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“No.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“I will see you again,” he said.</p>
			<p class="pindent">“Good,” I said.</p>
			<p class="pindent">Outside I kept away from the station, where there were military police, and picked up a cab at the edge of the little park. I gave the driver the address of the hospital. At the hospital I went to the porter’s lodge. His wife embraced me. He shook my hand.</p>
			<p class="pindent">“You are back. You are safe.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“Yes.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“Have you had breakfast?”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“Yes.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“How are you, Tenente? How are you?” the wife asked.</p>
			<p class="pindent">“Fine.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“Won’t you have breakfast with us?”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“No, thank you. Tell me is Miss Barkley here at the hospital now?”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“Miss Barkley?”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“The English lady nurse.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“His girl,” the wife said. She patted my arm and smiled.</p>
			<p class="pindent">“No,” the porter said. “She is away.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">My heart went down. “You are sure? I mean the tall blonde English young lady.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“I am sure. She is gone to Stresa.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“When did she go?”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“She went two days ago with the other lady English.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“Good,” I said. “I wish you to do something for me. Do not tell any one you have seen me. It is very important.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“I won’t tell any one,” the porter said. I gave him a ten-lira note. He pushed it away.</p>
			<p class="pindent">“I promise you I will tell no one,” he said. “I don’t want any money.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“What can we do for you, Signor Tenente?” his wife asked.</p>
			<p class="pindent">“Only that,” I said.</p>
			<p class="pindent">“We are dumb,” the porter said. “You will let me know anything I can do?”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“Yes,” I said. “Good-by. I will see you again.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">They stood in the door, looking after me.</p>
			<p class="pindent">I got into the cab and gave the driver the address of Simmons, one of the men I knew who was studying singing.</p>
			<p class="pindent">Simmons lived a long way out in the town toward the Porta Magenta. He was still in bed and sleepy when I went to see him.</p>
			<p class="pindent">“You get up awfully early, Henry,” he said.</p>
			<p class="pindent">“I came in on the early train.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“What’s all this retreat? Were you at the front? Will you have a cigarette? They’re in that box on the table.” It was a big room with a bed beside the wall, a piano over on the far side and a dresser and table. I sat on a chair by the bed. Simmons sat propped up by the pillows and smoked.</p>
			<p class="pindent">“I’m in a jam, Sim,” I said.</p>
			<p class="pindent">“So am I,” he said. “I’m always in a jam. Won’t you smoke?”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“No,” I said. “What’s the procedure in going to Switzerland?”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“For you? The Italians wouldn’t let you out of the country.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“Yes. I know that. But the Swiss. What will they do?”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“They intern you.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“I know. But what’s the mechanics of it?”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“Nothing. It’s very simple. You can go anywhere. I think you just have to report or something. Why? Are you fleeing the police?”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“Nothing definite yet.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“Don’t tell me if you don’t want. But it would be interesting to hear. Nothing happens here. I was a great flop at Piacenza.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“I’m awfully sorry.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“Oh yes—I went very badly. I sung well too. I’m going to try it again at the Lyrico here.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“I’d like to be there.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“You’re awfully polite. You aren’t in a bad mess, are you?”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“I don’t know.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“Don’t tell me if you don’t want. How do you happen to be away from the bloody front?”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“I think I’m through with it.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“Good boy. I always knew you had sense. Can I help you any way?”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“You’re awfully busy.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“Not a bit of it, my dear Henry. Not a bit of it. I’d be happy to do anything.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“You’re about my size. Would you go out and buy me an outfit of civilian clothes? I’ve clothes but they’re all at Rome.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“You did live there, didn’t you? It’s a filthy place. How did you ever live there?”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“I wanted to be an architect.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“That’s no place for that. Don’t buy clothes. I’ll give you all the clothes you want. I’ll fit you out so you’ll be a great success. Go in that dressing room. There’s a closet. Take anything you want. My dear fellow, you don’t want to buy clothes.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“I’d rather buy them, Sim.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“My dear fellow, it’s easier for me to let you have them than go out and buy them. Have you got a passport? You won’t get far without a passport.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“Yes. I’ve still got my passport.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“Then get dressed, my dear fellow, and off to old Helvetia.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“It’s not that simple. I have to go up to Stresa first.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“Ideal, my dear fellow. You just row a boat across. If I wasn’t trying to sing, I’d go with you. I’ll go yet.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“You could take up yodelling.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“My dear fellow, I’ll take up yodelling yet. I really can sing though. That’s the strange part.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“I’ll bet you can sing.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">He lay back in bed smoking a cigarette.</p>
			<p class="pindent">“Don’t bet too much. But I can sing though. It’s damned funny, but I can. I like to sing. Listen.” He roared into “Africana,” his neck swelling, the veins standing out. “I can sing,” he said. “Whether they like it or not.” I looked out of the window. “I’ll go down and let my cab go.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“Come back up, my dear fellow, and we’ll have breakfast.” He stepped out of bed, stood straight, took a deep breath and commenced doing bending exercises. I went downstairs and paid off the cab.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
